本日のリスニング教材です。2026年9月12日のセッションで扱った表現を収録しています。

今日のトピックは、日常会話でのミス訂正表現、記憶に関する動詞の使い分け、willとbe going toの違い、延期と延長の語彙、電車に関する表現などです。

それでは始めます。

次は、発話練習で出てきた表現の復習です。

昨日、急に吸いたくなった衝動を抑えられなかった

Yesterday, I couldn't resist my sudden urge to smoke.

Yesterday, I couldn't fight off this sudden urge to smoke.

彼の名前を忘れないようにメモした

I took note of his name so as not to forget it.

I jotted down his name so I wouldn't forget it.

図書館に傘を置き忘れてきた

I left my umbrella at the library.

I left my umbrella behind at the library.

次は、久しぶりにボールを蹴った時の表現です。

長い間ボールを蹴っていなかった

I hadn't kicked a ball in ages

膝の手術を受けて以来

since I had knee surgery

since having knee surgery

それでは、通して聞いてみましょう。

I hadn't kicked a ball in ages since I had knee surgery.

I hadn't kicked a ball in ages since having knee surgery.

次は、会話の中で出てきた語彙や表現の確認です。

I've realized that there are quite a few words, such as craving or lick, that native speakers use as if they were basic vocabulary, even though I had never actually learned them.

How'd you know I was craving chocolate?

I actually think you'd make a good model.

I might be running a bit behind schedule.

Are you gonna come back soon?

まず、in agesとfor a long timeの違いについてです。

I hadn't kicked a ball in ages.

I hadn't kicked a ball for a long time.

ここがポイントです。

in agesは、ものすごく久しぶりだという驚きや強調を伴うカジュアルな言い方です。for a long timeは、単に期間の長さを客観的に述べる中立的な言い方です。

I hadn't kicked a ball in ages.

次は、has beenとhad beenの違いです。

It's been a long time since I last kicked a ball.

It had been a long time since I last kicked a ball.

ここがポイントです。

今まさにその実感を話すときはhas been、過去のある時点を振り返って語るときはhad beenを使います。

It's been a long time since I last kicked a ball.

次は、willとbe going toの違いです。

I will swing by the shop on my way home.

I'm going to swing by the shop after work.

ここがポイントです。

その場で思いついた決断にはwillを、前もって決まっていた予定にはbe going toを使います。

I will swing by the shop on my way home.

次は、so thatの後ろに続く助動詞の使い分けです。

He hid the receipt so his roommate wouldn't find out how much he spent.

I'm going to hide the receipt so my roommate won't find out how much I spend.

ここがポイントです。

主節が過去形のときはwouldn't、主節が現在形や未来形のときはwon'tを使うのが時制の一致のルールです。

He hid the receipt so his roommate wouldn't find out.

次は、記憶に関する動詞やイディオムのまとめです。

I can't remember his name.

I can't recall his name off the top of my head.

His name rings a bell, but I can't place it.

Sorry, it completely slipped my mind.

I always forget his name.

His name is on the tip of my tongue.

I tried to recall his name, but I drew a blank.

I memorized his name so I wouldn't forget it again.

次は、延期と延長のグループです。

The meeting has been postponed until next week.

Let's put off the meeting until next week.

They extended the deadline by one week.

He didn't want to prolong the argument any further.

次は、電車に関する表現です。

I usually take the train to work.

I got on the train just before the doors closed.

Hurry, we need to get on the train before it leaves.

How long is the train ride? If it's going to be a while, I'd like to use the restroom just in case.

次は、比喩表現です。

People often compare life to a rollercoaster.

She described her mood as a rainy day.

次は、it feels likeとI feel likeの違いです。

It felt like some kind of joke.

I feel like it's a joke.

ここがポイントです。

It feels likeは状況や出来事そのものがどう感じられるかを描写し、I feel likeは自分自身の主観的な感覚を述べます。

It felt like some kind of joke.

最後に、その他の表現です。

My fatigue has been building up all week, and I think it's finally going to catch up with me this weekend.

I think the library is a little bit far from here.

以上でリスニング教材を終わります。お疲れさまでした。
