本日のリスニング教材です。2026年7月28日のセッションで扱った表現を収録しています。

今日のトピックは、学会前のプロトタイプ準備と、インド出張中のデータ収集の課題についてです。
それでは始めます。

次は、即英訳の練習です。日本語を聞いたら、頭の中で英語にしてみてください。

明日までにプロトタイプを準備しないといけない

I need to get my prototype prepared by tomorrow

なぜなら、10月に北海道である学会で発表するから

because I'm presenting at a conference in Hokkaido this October.

だから研究を進めて、参加者をたくさん集めて、しっかりしたデータを集めないといけない

This means I need to move forward with my research and recruit a lot of participants to gather solid data.

それに加えて、このタイトなスケジュールに加えて、8月25日から9月30日までインドに行く予定もある

On top of that, in addition to this tight schedule, I also have a trip to India from August 25th to September 30th.

その間は当然、研究室にアクセスできない

During my trip, of course, I'll have no access to my lab,

しかも、研究にはPAMという物理的な機器が必要

and my research requires a physical device called PAM.

だから、その期間はデータを一切蓄積できない

This means during that period I will never be able to accumulate or gather any data.

データがなければ、それが正しいか確認することも、じっくり考えることもできない

Without data, I will never be able to make sure it's correct or think it through.

And without data, there's no way to verify accuracy or really think things through.

それでは、通して聞いてみましょう。

I need to get my prototype prepared by tomorrow because I'm presenting at a conference in Hokkaido this October. This means I need to move forward with my research and recruit a lot of participants to gather solid data. On top of that, in addition to this tight schedule, I also have a trip to India from August 25th to September 30th. During my trip, of course, I'll have no access to my lab, and my research requires a physical device called PAM. This means during that period I will never be able to accumulate or gather any data. Without data, I will never be able to make sure it's correct or think it through.

I need to finish prepping my prototype by tomorrow since I'm presenting at a conference in Hokkaido this October, which means pushing forward with my research and lining up enough participants to gather solid data. On top of that tight schedule, I'll be away in India from August 25th to September 30th, with zero access to my lab or the PAM device my research depends on, so no data collection at all during that stretch. And without data, there's no way to verify accuracy or really think things through.
